# Vision

InvArch is designed to allow streamlined access to IP storage, IP ownership, IP authentication, and to turn IP into digital assets that can experience utility in decentralized applications. InvArch is the results of over 4 years of conceptualization. The founder began forming his idea for a way to "bridge the gap between ideas & creation" in the spring of 2017 after being pitched a well-received idea, only for the curator of that idea to note that they lacked the skills to actualize it. It was in that moment that the founder realized that intellectual property was notably useless by itself, and lack a way for individuals to utilize their ideas as assets.

InvArch allows individuals to tokenize and store their intellectual property (IP) as intellectual property files (IPFs), combine IPFs into collections called IP Sets, and utilize programmable IP Tokens pegged to an IP Set. This design allows these new tokens to leverage social, business, financial, and governance transaction utility. This protocol will serve as a foundation for a new global economy of decentralized ownership and management that will help streamline innovation and opportunity. The pallets responsible for IP tokenization will be modular; however, slightly different by design than the pallets responsible for IP tokenization found natively on InvArch. InvArch will serve as the center point of IP tokenization and authentication. Utilizing lateral cross-consensus messaging (XCM), a technological breakthrough made possible by the Polkadot relay chain, IP Files minted on other chains throughout the Paraverse will have their data sent from their native chains and through the Polkadot relay, where InvArch and cross-references will receive them for plagiarism. This technology will provide a mechanism for instantly validating content and flagging duplicated files. Through the achievement of the InvArch parachain, the InvArch SDK, and Cross-Chain Authentication, InvArch will provide a permanent and upgradeable protocol for IP management, utility, and authentication
