# Vision

InvArch is designed to allow streamlined access to IP storage, IP ownership, IP authentication, and to turn IP into digital assets that can experience utility in decentralized applications. InvArch is the results of over 4 years of conceptualization. The founder began forming his idea for a way to "bridge the gap between ideas & creation" in the spring of 2017 after being pitched a well-received idea, only for the curator of that idea to note that they lacked the skills to actualize it. It was in that moment that the founder realized that intellectual property was notably useless by itself, and lack a way for individuals to utilize their ideas as assets.

InvArch sets a standard for, and makes possible, the tokenization of files and intellectual works as NFTs called Intellectual Property Tokens (IPTs). IPTs are a new kind of digital asset that secure & authenticate IP ownership. IPTs can be combined into collections of related IP called IP Sets, which are intended to reflect the storage of files detailing or describing an idea; however, use-cases are free for future developers to decide based on the needs of their applications. Additionally, InvArch introduces pegged & programmable IP Ownership tokens (IPO tokens). These tokens are pegged to an IP Set, and can serve a variety of multi-utility possibilities. Such possibilities could include acting as rights to royalty claims, access rights to linked IPTs, security tokens over IP, voting weight in DAOs that govern IP, and currency in IP-based dApps. InvArch is powered by VARCH, the native token of the protocol. VARCH is a multi-purpose utility token that exists to provide voting weight to its holders in governance matters related to the protocol, cover IPT minting fees, stake towards IP Sets & dApps on-chain, and act as a medium of exchange for applications built using InvArch. InvArch is being built to join the Polkadot ecosystem as a parachain, introducing interoperable IP assets to the relay.